Tech Workers of the World - Unite! And then...  Profit?
#######################################################
:date: 2019-05-05 04:02
:author: cpatti
:category: Uncategorized
:slug: 551
:status: draft

Over the last year or so I have been witnessing a real groundswell occur in certain quarters of the technology industry. On social media, in person and in various other online communities, I'm hearing and reading a lot of people saying that they feel mistreated. They also feel like by going to work every day they're complicit in innumerable injustices large and small perpetrated by faceless shareholders conspiring from the board rooms of the large corporations many of us work for.

The thing is? They're not wrong. There are injustices that are fairly common in the technology industry, but from where I sit it's incredibly important to be very clear about precisely what it is you're fighting both for and against, otherwise you erode the credibility of your cause. I find it disheartening how often these would be crusaders seem to have very little idea of precisely what they're advocating for.

In this article I'm going to briefly outline some of the problems I see with my industry and touch on some potential solutions where I see them.

Wealth Disparity
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Much has been written elsewhere about how technology workers make a great deal more money than the average person, and even a great deal more money than quite a number of other highly trained (possibly **much** more higly trained!) professionals.

San Francisco and the Bay area are poster children for this problem - with companies like Google and their highly paid workers driving lower income people out of neighborhoods they and their families may have inhabited for generations

Privacy Violations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There currently exists an inherently predatory relationship between technology providers and consumers. People unknowingly trade away either cost or convenience for their personal privacy. Vast amounts of data are collected and used in ways that while totally legal are of questionable ethical standards.

Mistreatment of Employees
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

From a strictly dollars and sense perspective, divorced from morality, pay is commensurate with a combination of demand and the level of skill required.

| In reality how true this is varies wildly.
